Theresa Pham
Spotify WorldView
-----------------------------------
UPDATED FOR FINAL TAKE HOME COMPONENT:

Description: This application is an extension on the project "Album Availability" which adds 
functionality to view the albums available in a country by allowing for a more intuitive 
search by keyword rather than needing to find the URI of an album, as well as a NEW additional functionality that allows Spotify users specifically to log in and view tracklist and availability information on saved albums from their account.
Innovative Aspects: The project is innovative because it has the ability to show a user a map interface that highlights countries in which an album in available, giving users an idea of where certain kinds of music are available and allowing a user to learn more about their favorite albums. It now also personalizes the experience for Spotify users since the application will pull up a list of their own saved albums for them to view the availability of.  The map interface is very eye-grabbing, and while it may only be something interesting for the average music listener to look at, for record label employees, they can see location demographics of their company or other company's music and where certain albums are reaching listeners through Spotify.

Main files added/changed for new functionality (new code relied heavily on RSpotify, a Ruby wrapper for the Spotify Web API):
- spotifyWorldView/app/controllers/users_controller.rb //pulled information from Spotify user's account
- spotifyWorldView/app/views/users/spotify.html.erb //redirect page after logging in - shows account info and list of saved albums
- spotifyWorldView/app/views/home/index.html.erb //added link to sign into Spotify
- spotifyWorldView/config/initializers/omniauth.rb //configuring open authorization and declaring scope values

[Link to Repository](https://github.com/itstheresa/spotifyWorldView)

Instructions for Setup: 
1. Clone the repository to your local machine.
2. Open terminal and cd to the spotifyWorldView folder.
3. Enter "rails s"
4. Go to localhost:3000 in your browser.
5. Enjoy Spotify WorldView

How to Use: ~Search for an album OR Log in~
If you search for an album, you will get a list of albums based on your search query.  If you log in, the application will pull up a list of your saved albums from your account.  
From both of those pages, you can then select an album and see the tracklist ordered by popularity, 
as well as see the countries that the album is available in, and there is a link that 
leads to the map interface to show the countries highlighted that the album is available in.   
The website leads to a Github page where 
albums can be searched by URI or dragged in from Spotify to then view on the map where an album is available.

Huge limitation was the inability to incorporate the Google Charts javascript used in the original open
source project directly into the Ruby on Rails application, which made it extremely difficult
to directly implement additional functionalities in the Rails framework.

Also had issues taking algorithm and making it viewable. Rails would not properly connect
my view and controller functions for the countries.

Original Source Code Files: 
- spotifyWorldView/index.html (controls the Github page)
- spotifyWorldView/app/assets/javascripts/application.js

Edits made: Made it clearer to user what to do on the map interface, added button that links to the search by keyword functionality I created, changed search input so users could enter just the URI if they have it rather than typing the specific notation “spotify:album:[URI]” 

Files Generated by Framework:
- Most folders in the repository were generated via creation of the Rails app
- Any files in spotifyWorldView/test

Files w/ My Code:
- spotifyWorldView/app/controllers
- spotifyWorldView/app/views/albums

Majority of algorithm is in spotifyWorldView/views/albums/index.html.erb with hashes in spotifyWorldView/app/controllers/albums but could not get the country links to work properly.  Otherwise, clicking the link of a country should display a page of the albums from the search results that are available in that country.
